Google's free Wi-Fi service now available at 10 Indian railway stations
Google launches app to control your phone through voice
Uber cuts rates by up to 22 per cent in non-metro Indian cities
Huawei Watch launched in India for Rs 22,999
When Apple released the iPad Pro last year, many thought the company did wrong in increasing the size. The compact size of the earlier iPad was its main charm. The iPad has been a success solely because it is like an Internet appliance, which a person can just pick and consume and digest digital content with ease. With the iPad Pro 12.9-inch, the company attempted to change the formula by also adding some features that would allow users to work better on the device. But it was too big. And probably consumers too found the same.
So with the new 9.7-inch iPad Pro Apple is going back to basics. It has gone back to the size that defined the tablet market. At the same time, the new iPad also gets most of the hardware muscle that Apple added in the bigger iPad Pro. Additionally, you also get some of the features that are from the iPhone 6S. The result is that the iPad Pro 9.7 feels like a device that packs in the best of Apple. But is it enough to make it attractive? After all, we have seen that tablets don't really fit into the kind of digital lives we lead. May be the new iPad Pro changes it. Let's find out.
This one is simple. The iPad Pro 9.7 is the best engineered tablet in the market.  It is drop-dead gorgeous with its sleek metal lines and matte finish. Like other iPads, it is fully crafted out of metal, and its build quality is top class.
It is also possibly the slimmest 9.7-inch tablet in the market at 6.1mm and it is super light at 444 grams. It is so light that at times we felt we were using something similar to the iPad Mini, but maybe that was a side-effect of using the larger iPad Pro for months. It is also slimmer than even the iPhone 6S.
Apple gets the usability aspect right with the iPad Pro 9.7. It has found a middle ground between the wide canvas of the iPad Pro 12.9-inch model and a device like the iPad Mini.
But there are a few kinks. The physical keyboard for a product of its size doesn't work well. Another issue is the camera bump on the iPad Pro, which sticks out like a grotesque pimple on a miss world's face. It is just a design oddity that you don't expect from Apple's products. It is even more apparent on the iPad Pro because the iPad Pro 12.9-inch model didn't have it. In usage, it isn't a hassle. The camera bump does not affect the balance of the product and it sits still while laying flat back-first on a table.
Overall, the iPad Pro is impressive and yes, it looks very classy in the new Rose Gold colour.
With the display on the iPad Pro 9.7, Apple isn't gunning for some unnecessary theatrics in terms of resolution, but it is trying for some meaningful improvements. The new iPad has the same 2048 x 1536 pixels resolution that we get on the iPad Air 2. However, it borrows all the cool contrast ratio and colour gamut enhancements from the larger 12.9-inch iPad Pro. It goes a step further as it has managed to add a new technology which it calls 'TrueTone' display.
Apple says that essentially, when you switch on this mode from the settings menu, the display reacts just the way paper reacts to light. According to the ambient light, the brightness levels, the contrast ratio and the colour temperature change and that makes for a nicer reading experience.
Apple gets the usability aspect right with the iPad Pro 9.7. It has found a middle ground between the wide canvas of the iPad Pro 12.9-inch model and a device like the iPad Mini
The nightshift feature in iOS 9.3 also makes for a nicer reading experience, especially in the evenings. The feature reduces the strain on the user's eye and this is very handy for people who read lot of stuff on their tablet.
The iPad Pro 9.7 supports the Apple Pencil which, can even tilt and is incredibly sensitive. Although artists will like it more, it is easy to appreciate its usefulness. While sketching the Pencil draws patterns with very low latency.
Apple has done a great job with the iPad Pro 9.7 display. It is bright, vivid, and sharp. Long story short, it is the nicest LCD display we've ever seen in a tablet and that's an impressive feat considering we are comparing it to the one on the 12.9-inch iPad Pro.
The 12-megapixel camera on the back of iPad Pro takes great photos in daylight. These images have accurate colours and minimum processing so that they don't look artificial. It also supports live photos and 4K video, which are great additions. The quality of the videos that we shot with the iPad Pro was top notch and right up there with what you get from phones like the iPhone 6S and the Galaxy S7. Although, there's no optical stabilisation here, which results in more shake and photos in low-light have lowered sharpness.
Even the front camera is the same one as the iPhone 6S. This includes a 5-megapixel sensor, which is paired with a retina flash system. All this leads to great selfies, but on a tablet, we believe it will particularly benefit regular users of Skype or FaceTime calls.
The size of the iPad Pro also makes it an interesting device to shoot from considering the user also gets a massive viewfinder, which no phone currently has.
If you thought Apple hadn't done enough to optimise iOS for the iPad Pro 12.9-inch model, then chances are you would continue to think that after using the smaller Pro. Yes, split-screen multitasking is nice to have but the capabilities are limited.
The virtual glass keyboard, thankfully, is better. On the larger screen of the 12.9-inch model, Apple added more keys and contextual buttons, which would help people get things done, but they just made the keyboard poorer.
Apple has gone back to the traditional iPad Air keyboard on this Pro and it feels and works great. If you've been typing on glass for a couple of years, then the keyboard of the iPad Pro 9.7 will feel great. It is the fastest virtual keyboard.
Apple preloads its iWork apps which work decently, but Microsoft's alternatives are better. The iPad Pro also gets the 'hey Siri' feature which is again a nice addition. The fingerprint scanner is very fast, however, Apple is using the first generation sensor in this iPad.
Apple has also released a new keyboard for the smaller screen size. It supports a number of shortcuts that are there on the Mac, but if you are looking at it from a typing perspective, then it isn't great. The keys are cramped and because of the fabric, they feel stiff. It is safe to say, if you're a touch typist you will likely hate the experience.
The 12.9-inch iPad Pro was a screamer in terms of performance, and the smaller iPad Pro is no less. It uses the same A9X processor, which Apple claims is 70 per cent faster than the processor in the iPad Air 2. During use it feels as quick as the larger iPad Pro, however, teardowns have revealed that it packs an under-clocked processor and has 2GB RAM, which is half the amount as the larger iPad Pro. Apple has also added a 256GB SKU, which will appeal to people who want laptop like internal storage.
If you've been typing on glass for a couple of years, then the keyboard of the iPad Pro 9.7 will feel great. It is the fastest virtual keyboard
The iPad Pro 9.7 also gets the 4-speaker system from the iPad Pro 12.9, which sounds nicer than even the speakers of the 15-inch MacBook Pro. Particularly, the bass and mid range frequencies sounded punchy and the treble was never overbearing. This makes it fun to watch movies on the iPad Pro 9.7 while the screen is smaller than the one in bigger Pro you can hold it in an easier way and hence have a better experience.
Also Read:  Apple iPhone SE review: Old bottle, new wine
Apple promises around about 10 hours of battery life with the iPad Pro. As it is usual for the Apple devices, the iPad Pro 9.7 outperforms the company claim. In our tests, battery life ranged between 9.5 hours to 11 hours. Even when used with a 3G SIM, the iPad Pro delivered around about 9.5 hours of usage, which is just about the best one can expect from a tablet. Simply put, you shouldn't worry about the battery life with this. It even has stellar standby life and loses just a few percent of battery when not used for hours.
If you want to buy a tablet to play games, edit or create documents, browse the web and watch videos, the iPad remains the device to own. The optimum screen size for a tablet, at least for now, is 9.7 inches. This alone, in our opinion makes the iPad Pro 9.7, a better deal than the other iPads, or for that matter any other tablet.
It is also, we believe, is the best iPad Apple has ever made. However, all this comes at a great cost. The iPad Pro starts at Rs 49,900 and goes all the way up to Rs 85,900. If you're willing to shell out that kind of money, Apple's new iPad Pro will deliver a delightful experience. However, you should just remember it will not replace your Mac or PC at everything.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in.ताज़ातरीन ख़बरों और वीडियो के लिए आजतक.इन पर आएं.
Copyright © 2016 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today.
Copyright © 2016 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today.