Mustafizur Rahman, 20, has taken international cricket by storm and is presently plying his trade for the Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Indian Premier League.
Bangladesh One-Day International captain Mashrafe Mortaza believes left-arm pacer Mustafizur Rahman can revolutionise cricket in the nation if he plays for 10 or more more years. (Full IPL Coverage)
The 20-year-old has taken international cricket by storm and is presently plying his trade for the Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Indian Premier League (IPL). But Mortaza also says that the youngster is not a machine and must be rested when needed.
"His body is not a machine. Mustafizur is an asset for Bangladesh, we must realise that. We have to make sure that Bangladesh gets the highest service he has to offer, so that he can play for at least 10-12 years for Bangladesh. I believe, Mustafizur will change Bangladesh cricket," Mortaza was quoted as saying by bdnews24.com on Monday.
In the IPL, players have failed to read him and he is one of the most economical bowlers in the competition, when asked about it Mortaza said, "Mustafizur's success was expected. Top batsmen across the world have trouble reading him. IPL teams comprise four foreign and seven Indian players. He is supposed to do well there, it's no surprise."
Most Indian wickets are batting friendly but Mustafizur has managed to get wickets regularly. Mortaza attributed this to his variety as a bowler.
"It's good for him if the ball does grip the surface but it's not necessary. He has developed a wide repertoire. He can now bowl at 142-143 kmph, and with a cross seam that unsettles the batsman. He has been bowling perfect yorkers."
"What has trouble the batsmen more are the variety of cutters that Mustafizur has in his Arsenal. He has also developed slower balls and a fast yorker," he added.
Mustafizur is a slippery customer and he hurries the batsmen into playing false shots, Mortaza analysed.
"Say he spends 10-12 days without practice, just sleeping, still he will surely be able to bowl with guile and venom in a match. He can bowl cutters with his eyes closed, it comes naturally to him. Mustafizur is far more skilful than all his contemporaries," Mortaza said stressing on the cutters that he bowls.
"I'd say, he is much more difficult to play than it seems. Simply consider this, all batsmen know he will bowl cutters but still struggle to play them. Why? Firstly, because of the diversity of his cutters. It's difficult reading his wrist action."
"Sometimes he may have to bear with a one or two sixes and fours, but he is basically unplayable. A batsman like AB de Villiers could not play him even after getting set."
Mortaza also warned that he needs to be atken care of as much as he needs to look after himself.
"It is the most crucial for the future. A person is mostly responsible for taking care of himself. Mustafizur is capable of doing that very well. He is a very disciplined boy. So I don't worry too much about it."
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in.ताज़ातरीन ख़बरों और वीडियो के लिए आजतक.इन पर आएं.
Copyright © 2016 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today