Samsung Galaxy J3 (2016) quick review: One for the road
Apple iPhone SE vs Xiaomi Mi 5: Rapid fire comparison
Samsung Gear S2 review: Reinventing the wheel
5 reasons to buy the iPhone SE
A good design does not date. It only gets better with time, like a bottle of fine wine. This is what you will think when you look at the Galaxy A5 (2016). It is almost exactly like last year's Galaxy S6. But look closer and you'll find Samsung has made subtle changes that translate into visible refinements. The Galaxy A5 (2016) is the Galaxy S6 done better in terms of design.
The Galaxy S6 was launched at a starting price of Rs 50,000 (32GB) while the top-end (128GB) variant went all the way up to Rs 60,000. The Galaxy A5 (2016), on the other hand, has been priced at Rs 29,400 . Not bad, eh? So, what's the catch? There are quite a few. The most important one: the original S6 can be purchased for as low as Rs 34,000 now. And where does that leave the new Galaxy A5? In a tight spot!
Who would have thought that a Samsung A-series phone would look like an S-series phone? But in 2016, it does.
The Galaxy A5 (2016) seamlessly fuses glass and metal to offer a premium design and build quality at a mid-range price. Subtle but useful changes built atop the design of the Galaxy S6 make the Galaxy A5 pleasing to the eye as well as improve its ergonomics. The phone comes with curved 2.5D Gorilla Glass 4 on the front as well as on the back. This glass blends into the chamfered metal frame. It's a match made in heaven, as they say.
Chamfered edges and bumpy corners add to the overall grip. It's a pleasure to hold a premium glass and metal phone in your hand that stays inside your hands. The Galaxy S6 was so much more slippery. Though, one thing that hasn't improved is how it attracts fingerprints and smudges. The Galaxy A5 is as reflective and as fingerprint friendly as the S6.
The power button is on the right while the volume rocker is on the left. These are well-placed and offer excellent feedback. The right side also houses a dual slot for one SIM and microSD card. There's another SIM slot, on the upper end. Inside the home button, there is a fingerprint scanner.
While The A5's thickness (7.3mm) is in line with phones like the Google Nexus 5X and the HTC One A9, it's slightly heavier at 155 grams to accommodate the chunkier battery inside. Numbers, however, tell only half the story. The Galaxy A5 (2016) is the best-looking and the best-designed phone at its price point, even more so than the One A9.
The Galaxy A5 (2016) comes with a 5.2-inch FullHD display with a 1080x1920 pixels resolution. The screen uses Samsung's Super AMOLED panel, which has built quite a reputation for itself in the market, so much so that you know you can't go wrong with a Samsung display 9 out of 10 times. The new Galaxy A5 is no different. The display here is top-notch in every sense of the word.
It looks every bit as good as the one on the Galaxy S6. Yes, the latter has more pixels per inch, but the difference is almost indiscernible, simply because there isn't much of a difference anyway. Just like Sumper AMOLED screens in other Galaxy phones, the Galaxy A5 screen shows exceptionally bright and punchy colours. It also has excellent viewing angles.
Unlike the HTC One A9's AMOLED panel, colours on the Galaxy A5 appear slightly more accurate. Meanwhile, brightness is in line with what you get on the Moto X Style (another phone with top-notch display) . One area where it excels over the Moto X Style is adaptive brightness. The Galaxy A5 is crazy fast while adapting to the available light. Overall, we feel the Galaxy A5 (2015) has the best display in and around its price point (under Rs 30,000).
The Galaxy A5 (2016) runs Android 5.1.1 Lollipop-based TouchWiz UI. Samsung got a lot of praise last year for trimming down the bloated TouchWiz user interface. Things are only getting better with time. Sadly, the Galaxy A5 (2016) -- despite the relatively toned-down UI -- feels way out of league and sluggish in comparison to the Galaxy S6. It's one of the major let downs of this otherwise promising device.
Software wise, it is the same deal you get on the flagship Galaxy S6, so there's not much to complain about. There's Samsung's S Finder, Split Screen View, Quick Connect and themes, some of which are exclusive to A5. Bloat or unwanted apps are fewer in numbers but they are still there. The two examples are: MixRadio and Opera Max. If you like them, that is great! If you don't, you can't uninstall them.
App optimisation is the most notable features of the UI here. The feature lets you save battery power by optimising battery usage of apps. Based on your preference, notification alerts from optimised apps will be limited.
The Galaxy A5 (2015) is powered by a 1.6GHz octa-core Exynos 7580 processor coupled with Mali-T720 GPU and 2GB RAM. This is where things start to get shoddy. Even though it's rocking the same TouchWiz as the Galaxy S6, there are performance issues. You get the feeling that the hardware and software are constantly at war or something. As such lags while scrolling or during opening and closing of apps are common. And so are random app crashes.
Basic tasks are handled well as long as you stick to those basics. By basics we mean phone calls, text, social media, occasional gaming and some photography. And while you're at it make sure you keep track of how many apps are open in the background. The Galaxy A5 uses up available RAM pretty quick and is definitely not a phone should you be looking for a lot of multitasking. Frequency of app crashes increase as the number of opened apps increases.
At the same time, the Galaxy A5 is not your phone if you are after GPU-intensive gaming. Quality of graphics is poor for a phone that costs nearly Rs 30,000 and frame rate dips are common at high and medium settings. Basic games are handled well though. The phone also gets hot when you're pushing it, especially when playing demanding games.
All in all, the Galaxy A5 (2016) disappoints in the performance department and doesn't justify the price tag that it carries. Ironically, you can get more powerful phones at much less the cost these days.
The phone comes with 16GB of internal memory (11.03GB available) which is expandable by up to 128GB via microSD card. The Galaxy A5 variant being sold in India comes with two SIM slots and a separate microSD card slot.
The Galaxy A5 comes with a mono speaker out placed on the bottom end. It gets loud, but not loud enough. There is some distortion observed at peak volume. The One A9 and Moto X Style offer better audio output in comparison.
Phone calls made with the Galaxy A5 of acceptable quality, but there were occasional call drop issues with our review unit, especially while switching between towers.
The Galaxy A5 (2016) sports a 13-megapixel camera on the rear with f/1.9 aperture, optical image stabilisation, autofocus and LED flash. There's also a 5-megapixel camera (f/1.9) on the front. The Galaxy S6 set benchmark standards for smartphone cameras when it launched last year. The Galaxy S7 (and Galaxy S7 Edge) takes things forward this year . The Galaxy A5 camera on the other hand breaks the trend. It reminds us that despite its premium looks, it is essentially a mid-range A-series phone.
Although the rear sensor packs in a pretty impressive dynamic range, the images show noise if you zoom into them or crop them. This is for images clicked in good light. Low light photos lack detail and have abundant noise.
Images clicked in good lighting are passable with good detail, but the Nexus 5X and Moto X Style offer better results in such situations. Image quality is somewhere close to what you get on the One A9 , although the latter does better in low light.
A positive highlight of the Galaxy A5 is its quick focus and fast shutter speed. The phone excels in these areas. Sadly, the overall quality is just average.
The front selfie camera clicks good selfies, and is comparatively a better camera than what other phones give in this price bracket.  Videos shot (1080p) with the Galaxy A5 come out well detailed and steady (on most occasions) thanks to OIS. But the phone does not support 4K video.
You can check out the camera samples here: Sample 1 , Sample 2 , Sample 3 , Sample 4 , Sample 5 , Sample 6 , Sample 7 , Sample 8 , Sample 9 , Sample 10 .
The Galaxy A5 (2016) uses a non-removable 2,900mAh battery. Battery life is one of the strong highlights of this phone, in numbers as well as actual usage. And it supports fast charging and charges like a bullet.
Mixed usage which included an hour of video playback, half an hour of GPU-intensive gaming, 45 minutes of basic games, phone calls (to the tune of one hour), some music streaming and YouTube playback along with some web browsing gave us close to 14 hours on the device. Toning down further got us close to one full day without any hiccups.
Most users with a more generalised usage pattern should easily sail through one and a half days, even more using the power saving and ultra power saving mode should they be short of juice.
No, you shouldn't. The Galaxy A5 (2016) may be an affordable Galaxy S6 doppelganger, but it inherits only the design and display goodness of the flagship phone. Its camera and general performance leave a lot to be desired. Battery life is better than the Galaxy S6 though.
Come to think of it, the Galaxy A5 costs Rs 29,400 and isn't exactly what you can call an affordable smartphone, not when you can purchase the original Galaxy S6 for as little as Rs 34,000. Sure it looks good (in fact, slightly better than the S6) but that's all that you're getting out of it. The Moto X Style, Nexus 5X and HTC One A9 are far better phones at this price. We would have recommended this phone for its feel good factor; sadly it doesn't feel as good in actual usage. Instead, go buy the Galaxy S6, guys!
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @indiatoday and on Facebook at facebook.com/IndiaToday For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in.ताज़ातरीन ख़बरों और वीडियो के लिए आजतक.इन पर आएं.
Copyright © 2016 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today.
Copyright © 2016 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today.