YouTube launches 360-degree live streaming
Intel to cut up to 12,000 jobs as PC industry swoons
Xiaomi sold 14.8 million phones in Q1 2016: IHS
Google's free Wi-Fi service now available at 10 Indian railway stations
Can we have a moment of warm appreciation for Sony? Raise a toast perhaps? The Japanese company has -- after all -- given us the first ever 4K smartphone, ala, the Xperia Z5 Premium. Unlike LG which had Oppo and Vivo to share the name and fame for being one of the first companies to launch a 2K (QuadHD) phone, Sony has no competition. Well, at least for now. Sony's Xperia Z5 Premium is the world's first 4K smartphone, period!
The Sony Xperia Z5 Premium is not perfect. Just like any other gadget with a new piece of technology, it is flawed and there will be moments when you'll have to see through them to get to the other side of the proverbial wormhole. We dare say you do that. The Xperia Z5 Premium after all is the gateway to the future of the "premium" smartphone. As Sony puts it, the Xperia Z5 Premium is "a future-proof device for the imaginations, developers and apps of the future." And it is.
The question is: is it a little way too ahead of our time?
On first look it should appear that the Xperia Z5 Premium is the direct successor to the Xperia Z3+ which was launched six months ago. The resemblance is so uncanny. Only that the Xperia Z5 Premium is substantially bigger and...glassier. The chrome variant -- which we reviewed -- is so glassy you won't need to carry a vanity mirror separately. The black and gold variants are a little subtle in comparison. But whatever colour you choose, be prepared to wipe it on a regular basis. The Xperia Z5 Premium accumulates fingerprints by the millisecond. We would have easily forgotten about it and moved on. It is after all two blocks of glass sandwiched together by a stainless steel frame, what did you expect? But you see the Xperia Z5 (and Z5 Compact) come with something called as frosted glass, which kind of puts the Xperia Z5 Premium in bad light. Sony's super phone deserved a similar treatment, if not better.
Also read: Sony Xperia M5 Dual has lots of style and some substance
As for Sony's OmniBalance design -- which is basically all about the boxes and sharp contours -- you either like it or you don't. It's entirely subjective. If anything, the Xperia Z5 Premium is a little more boxed out than the Xperia Z3+. You get used to it after sometime. But what you won't like is the phone's sheer size. The phone weighs 180 grams and measures 7.8 mm in thickness. We understand that not all Sony phones have been slim and light-weight in the past. But, the Xperia Z5 Premium is really pushing it too far. Even the Samsung Galaxy Note 5  (which is a 5.7-inch phone by the way) is slimmer and sleeker than the Xperia Z5 Premium. And that thing has a stylus inside it!
The boxy appearance sets the Z5 Premium apart from the Galaxies and the iPhones. It certainly looks premium (and well worth that huge price tag, to some extent) but it most certainly doesn't feel that way. Sharp edges -- understandably there to protect the glass -- are a little too sharp to our liking. On a phone, as gigantic as this, a softer or textured finish would have been nicer.
On the plus side, the Xperia Z5 Premium has been designed to withstand harsher environment. Sony's super phone comes with IP68 certification which makes it dust-proof and water-resistant over 1.5 meters and for 30 minutes, something that rival top tier phones fail to offer. Best part, it's free from any flimsy flap or covering to hold on to its water-proofing credentials. Note that Sony advises against dunking the phone in water directly, but it should hold well against accidental spillage and rain.
The Xperia Z5 Premium also includes a new fingerprint scanner on the side. It's fairly quick and very responsive even though this is Sony's first attempt at giving you one.
Also read: Sony Xperia Z5 is the best phone ever made by Sony
The Xperia Z5 Premium has a 5.5-inch IPS screen with a 3840x2160 pixels resolution which roughly translates to a mammoth 806ppi. That's way too many pixels on a phone. That ladies and gentlemen is what they call 4K. That's the kind of stuff you get on high-end TVs. Sadly, that's also the biggest clichés of the Xperia Z5 Premium. You see it has trouble deciding whether to 4K or not to 4K most of the time and that's necessarily not a good thing.
The Xperia Z5 Premium renders images mostly -- a good 9.5 out of 10 times -- in fullHD (1080p), not even in QuadHD (2K). This means most of the stuff you will view on the Xperia Z5 Premium's 4K screen will actually be in FullHD. The reason is that the phone doesn't support 4K natively. Rather it upscales content (which isn't 4K) to that resolution when the need arises.
If you were thinking that you'll be treated with eye-popping 4K detail the very moment you power up the phone, that's not happening. A large part of it, of course, has to do with the fact that Android Lollipop (that's there on the phone) doesn't support 4K resolution natively. Then again, many would say Sony could have worked around this chink to offer true 4K on a phone that's supposed to be a great deal about that. The company says the reason why the phone "displays most of the content (including the homescreen and apps) in 1080p or lower is to optimise performance, power consumption and battery stamina."
Also read: Sony Xperia C4 Dual review
The "numbered" times it does do 4K, it does beautifully. This includes "4K content you've captured using your device or third-party 4K content from streaming services" like Netflix (not available in India). There's a catch in that latter part too. Majority of 4K content streaming and subscription services and YouTube haven't been optimised for mobile yet. YouTube, for instance, recognises the Xperia Z5 Premium as a FullHD phone and doesn't offer 4K content directly on it. It is the phone that upscales it to 4K.
Sony's upscaling algorithm is extended and limited to the phone's gallery (album and video) app. The Xperia Z5 Premium boosts all content that's available in gallery to 4K automatically. This can be best seen while viewing images. The difference is there though how useful you are going to find it depends on how much you care about the display and sharpness of the image.
At all other times the screen of the Xperia Z5 Premium is an average affair when compared with rival phones. It doesn't get as bright and punchy as the Super AMOLED panel of the Note 5. On the contrary it appears slightly on the dimmer side. This affects outdoor legibility to an extent.
The Xperia Z5 Premium runs Android 5.1.1 Lollipop-based Xperia UI which is Sony's custom skin. It's a heavily customised take on Android but we don't mind it. Even though most of the things have received a fresh coat of paint -- Sony style -- the user interface is polished, something that you'd expect from a top-tier company like Sony. More importantly, it takes no genius to get used to. Just an odd couple of swipes through the UI, and the user will be at home with things. A good user interface is one which is smooth and easy to be acquainted with. Sony's Xperia UI has both these areas covered.
The approach is pretty straight forward. There are multiple home screens and an app drawer in line with Google's vision for Android. However, unlike Google's own launcher, the Xperia app drawer allows you to have a transparent background which looks good, especially if you're the one who treasures wallpapers. The wallpaper you set is automatically reflected in the background in the app drawer.
The app drawer gives you access to a number of 'small apps' in the form of app shortcuts that open up as mini windows on the home screen for quick access. This allows for some multitasking, although it's nowhere comparable to Samsung's multi-window support.
Although the Xperia UI is spot-on in terms of usability and is smooth and lag-free for the most part, Sony could have cut the fat off some bloat or unwanted apps.
The Xperia Z5 Premium rocks a 2GHz octa-core Qualcomm Snapdragon 810 processor, coupled with Adreno 430 GPU and 3GB RAM. Performance is at par with rival phones from Samsung and Apple, if not better. Although it has the same hardware set as the Xperia Z5, the Xperia Z5 Premium feels slightly peppier on usage. That being said, the pricier Z5 Premium also has the tendency to run warmer in comparison.
The Snapdragon 810 was one of the prime reasons for the downfall of the Xperia Z3+. The Xperia Z5 did better to manage heat depreciation. The Xperia Z5 Premium does well to keep things under control, but is a slight step back from the Xperia Z5 in this regard. It is still better than the Xperia Z3+ though.
The phone runs warm on all occasions whether you are playing games, clicking photos, browsing the web or simply navigating through the UI for extended durations. Random app crashing was a common sight in the Xperia Z3+. We did not encounter any such issue with the Xperia Z5 Premium. It did get alarmingly hot while shooting 4K video (for a good 5 minutes or so) though. A positive thing about the Xperia Z5 Premium is its ability to cool down quickly.
Note that most of the high-end phones (like Note 5 and LG G4) have an affinity to get warm on long usage. The Xperia Z5 Premium runs warmer in comparison.
If you keep that out of the equation, the Xperia Z5 Premium is an excellent performer. But so is the Xperia Z5 (more or less) and that thing runs cooler in comparison. The Xperia Z5 Premium comes with 32GB of internal storage (22.58GB available) which is expandable by up to 200GB via microSD card.
The phone comes with dual front-facing speakers which offer satisfactory audio output. They get loud, but there's a definite lack of punch there (especially base). For a phone that costs more than Rs.60,000 audio quality is somewhat average.
Phone calls made with the Xperia Z5 Premium are of acceptable quality and we did not see any call drops issues in our review unit. The phone supports 4G LTE on both SIMs.
The Xperia Z5 Premium sports a 23-megapixel rear camera with phase detection autofocus and LED flash. That's the same stuff you get in the Xperia Z5. Not surprisingly then, the results are also on similar lines. But the Xperia Z5 Premium is priced a good Rs. 10,000 more so it's bound for stricter scrutiny. While we called the camera in the Xperia Z5 as Sony's best camera in a phone in a long time, we can't say the same about the Z5 Premium.
To begin with, the camera is slow. Phase detection autofocus is supposed to be faster than contrast autofocus and yet there are instances where the Xperia Z5 Premium takes awfully long to focus. It doesn't matter whether you're in good lighting or not, it is just slow. Shutter speed is good, but image processing takes a tad longer than what you get on rival phones, often frustratingly so. If that wasn't enough, the camera app itself takes an odd second or more to snap open and close. The Xperia Z5 Premium is not your phone if you're looking to click photos on the spur of the moment. Chances are you'll end up missing those moments.
The rear camera shoots images in 8-megapixels and 4:3 aspect ratio by default. Make sure you change that from settings to take full advantage of all those extra megapixels, although experience tells us it doesn't take a bevy of those to capture fine pictures. Note that you can't access some image modes, more importantly HDR at 23-megapixel setting.
As for images clicked, these are pretty good. It certainly isn't a bad camera phone; it just doesn't better the standards set by the Xperia Z5. It's more or less the same deal. Images clicked in good lighting conditions have excellent amount of detail and colours are true to source. We did not observe any odd metering issues in images during our time with the phone. Dynamic range is spot-on in good lighting. Macros shot with the Z5 Premium also boast of impressive amount of detail.
Photos clicked in tricky light were good, but low light photos are a step down from the Xperia Z5 which is a little surprising. Images clicked in low light were disappointing for a phone that costs so much. There are better camera phones in and around this price range better suited for low light photography.
The Xperia Z5 Premium comes with a 5-megapixel camera on the front that captures decent selfies ideal for posting on Facebook and the likes.
You can check out the camera samples here: Sample 1 , Sample 2 , Sample 3 , Sample 4 , Sample 5 , Sample 6 , Sample 7 , Sample 8 , Sample 9 , Sample 10 .
The Xperia Z5 Premium uses a 3,430 mAh battery which is non-removable. Sony claims two days of battery life on this one. Sadly, that's not the case in actual usage. Most users will be able to get close to a day of battery life.
At the same time, it's nice that Sony decided to stay put with FullHD output for the most part since 4K takes serious toll on battery life. In fact, you'll be running out of juice in just 2.5-3 hours if you stick to watching 4K content on the phone. Mixed usage which included an hour of 1080p video playback, half an hour of GPU-intensive gaming, 45 minutes of basic games, phone calls (to the tune of one hour), some music streaming and YouTube video playback along with web browsing gave us close to 11 hours on the device.
The Xperia Z5 Premium is definitely a phone straight out of the future. There's no denying that. But with great power comes great responsibility. Sadly, the Xperia Z5 Premium doesn't exactly know what to do with all the power that Sony has crammed inside it. It's a 4K phone that doesn't do 4K for the most part. Take that away and it's nothing but a super-sized Xperia Z5.
As of this moment, the Xperia Z5 Premium looks more like a novelty statement than a phone for the mass market. Sure, it's a clear sign of things to come in the future, but beyond that it's just one of those shiny things you see in the market, talk about for some time and then move on. What is definitely a stepping stone in Sony's timeline (and the smartphone world in general) isn't something you actually need right now. Long term Sony fans should try the Xperia Z5 for all intents and purposes. For others, there are certainly better options.
For more news from India Today, follow us on Twitter @IndiaTodayTech and on Facebook at facebook.com/indiatodaytech For news and videos in Hindi, go to AajTak.in.ताज़ातरीन ख़बरों और वीडियो के लिए आजतक.इन पर आएं.
Copyright © 2016 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today.
Copyright © 2016 Living Media India Limited. For reprint rights: Syndications Today.