Home » Articles » Skin » Face Care Tips
320 POSTS
Ever wondered how beneficial castor oil could be for your skin? Most of you have considered it as a cooking oil, but did you know the amazing benefits one could derive from it?
In this post, we are going to reveal to you some of our top beauty secrets that will not only change your complexion, but also help you achieve flawless and beautiful skin.
Would you like to know how castor oil can help enhance your facial beauty? Then read on!
Castor oil benefits for face are surplus, few of them are listed here:
Ever wanted soft, smooth and beautiful lips? If yes, the solution to your problem is none other than castor oil! It will hydrate your lips and add the smooth and plump look you have always wanted. Always take one teaspoon of castor oil and apply all over your lips before going to sleep. You may also do it the first thing in the morning. It is cost effective and a much better option as compared to expensive lip balms.
Most of you have often complained about your eyebrows. Some of you might even think they are not dark enough. But when you have castor oil at home, that problem will be taken care of as well. If you cleanse your eyebrows with a bit of castor oil on a regular basis, there is no doubt you will feel a difference. It’s best to carry out your beauty routine at night. The results are always better.
[ Read: Benefits Of Castor Oil For Your Eyes ]
Did you know that castor oil also cleanses your skin? Yes! It removes all the dead cells and allows your skin to shine and look brighter or radiant. If you haven’t added this to your beauty routine, then do so right away! All you have to do is take a few drops of castor oil on a piece of cotton ball and apply all over your face. This will also prevent your skin from having breakouts and removes all impurities found in the pores. Once you have massaged your skin, always wash your face with lukewarm or cold water.
You can also use castor oil as a good skin moisturizer. Here is a step by step procedure on how you should go about it.
[ Read: How Does Castor Oil Reduce Skin Pigmentation? ]
[ Read: Is Castor Oil Helpful To Treat Baldness? ]
How did you like this post? Have you ever tried castor oil for face before? Were you aware of its beauty benefits earlier? Let us know your experiences in the comment box below. We would love to hear from you!
Hi Anu, thanks a lot for your appreciation and sharing your experience with us !!
Copyright © 2016 StyleCraze