Home » Articles » Skin » Homemade Tips
954 POSTS
Do you need a makeup remover that benefits your skin in other ways? Have you ever considered almond oil? As you know, this wonderful oil has many benefits for health, skin and hair. It is often included in many skin care products as it helps the skin in more ways than one. It is an amazing antioxidant that helps reduce sun damage and the signs of aging. These are just a few of the benefits of almond oil for the skin (1).
Coming to removing makeup, wondering how almond oil can do the job? Read on to know!
When you choose a makeup remover, you probably always look for the one that can effectively remove eye makeup. Eyeliner and mascara are two things that need a little extra effort to get removed properly. Many women across the world who have used this oil to remove makeup rave about how eye makeup comes off easily when they use almond oil.
Unlike other makeup removers that you find in the market, almond oil does not contain any chemicals or substances that may cause damage to your skin. It is gentle on your skin, and of course, removes makeup without any problems. When you use this oil to remove makeup, you do not have to pull or tug your skin. Your skin is sensitive and pulling and tugging can damage it. It can also increase the appearance of fine lines.
Another reason almond oil makes a fantastic makeup remover is that it does not leave an oily and heavy residue on your skin. Using light almond oil will feel amazing on your skin and it will help in gently removing makeup, dirt and other impurities on your face.
If you have dry skin or a skin condition such as mild eczema, psoriasis, etc., using almond oil as a makeup remover is your best option. It will soothe your skin and give you relief from itchiness, flaking, cracking, etc. This is something that other products in the market cannot offer. In fact, since they contain so many different substances, they may aggravate these symptoms even more.
The steps to removing makeup with almond oil are simple. They are as follows: Take an adequate amount of almond oil on your palm and gently massage all over your face, focusing on your eyes and the area around them. Moisten a cotton ball with rose water (or plain water if you prefer) and gently rub the makeup off.
Since almond oil has many wonderful effects on the skin, you do not have to wash it off after removing your makeup. You can leave the oil on and let it work its magic on your skin. As mentioned earlier, you can gain relief from the symptoms of certain skin disorders and treat your skin to some much-needed hydration as well (2).
Almond oil will do more than just remove your makeup. It will give you skin that glows with health. It does wonders for the skin, which is why you should stop buying makeup removers from different brands and stick to this amazing oil. With this oil, you can have the skin that you have always dreamed of – radiant, soft and beautiful!
We hope this post has helped you. Do give us your feedback by commenting in the box below.
I agree to you regarding not using chemicals and using Almond oil as makeup remover. Along with Almond oil, different skin types can use Jojoba oil, coconut oil, avocado oils also as makeup remover. Great Article!
Copyright © 2016 StyleCraze