Home » Articles » Skin » Dry Skin
954 POSTS
Is your skin too dry and is that making your life tough? Are you wondering what you can do to treat your skin and make it smooth? Then rose water is the key.
Whether you have always had dry skin or it is caused by the harsh winter climate or skin care products, you can now rest assured as there is a wonderful solution at hand. By using rose water in your daily skin care regimen, you can have skin that is well hydrated and soft and smooth.
Would you like to know more? Read on!
Is rose water good for dry skin? Rose water is a great way to treat dry skin as it provides plenty of moisture and hydration to your skin. If your skin is very dry, using rose water on its own may not have the desirable effect. To make sure that it works well, use it with other products for maximum effect.
[ Read: Benefits Of Rose Water For Your Hair ]
Following are the two methods of using rose water to help treat your dry skin.
Using rose water with your daily moisturizing cream or lotion is a great way to provide hydration to your skin. It is really quite simple – all you need to do is add a few drops of it to your cream or lotion. Rub your hands together and apply on your skin as usual. Each time you use this mixture, you will notice a huge difference in how your skin looks and feels.
When mixed with moisturizers, rose water makes your skin softer and very supple. The skin flaking, redness, and itchiness will be reduced with every use. In no time, you will see that your skin feels amazing and is no longer tight with dryness. Since dry skin is more prone to the signs of aging, rose water will also keep fine lines, wrinkles and dark spots away.
You can make your own natural moisturizer at home by mixing a teaspoon of avocado or coconut oil, 2 teaspoons of rose water and 2 teaspoons of honey. These three ingredients have excellent effects on the skin and will moisturize and hydrate your dry skin, making it feel amazing!
[ Read: Benefits Of Rosewater For Your Eyes ]
Using rose water as a daily facial toner is another effective way to treat dry skin. It will help keep dryness away and make sure your skin glows with health. Most facial toners on the market contain large amounts of alcohol and chemicals that eventually cause moisture to be stripped away from your skin, making it extremely dry. Using the all-natural rose water is undoubtedly a much better option for you.
To use rose water as a facial toner, all you need to do is soak a cotton ball into it and apply it on your skin after you have cleansed your face. It will act as an extra cleanser by removing any excess makeup, dirt and dead skin that is left on your facial skin. Using chilled rose water is a great way to freshen up your skin and give it a moisture boost as well, and you can do this any time of the day!
[ Read: Benefits Of Rose Water For Your Hair ]
When you use rose water as a facial toner, it will help in toning your skin naturally. It will also help in giving you an even skin tone and closes your pores as well. It is the perfect prelude to your daily makeup routine as it prepares your facial skin for it.
Treat your skin to rose water to hydrate and moisturize it. It is the best natural treatment for dry skin and prevents all the skin problems that come with it, including signs of aging, redness, flaking, etc. By making it a part of your daily beauty regimen, you will get skin that glows with health, making it look and feel awesome always.
Have you ever used rose water for dry skin treatment? How has this post helped you? Do give us your feedback by commenting in the box below.
Copyright © 2016 StyleCraze