Home » Articles » Skin » Acne
954 POSTS
Are you suffering from acne or other facial skin problems? Have you been wondering what you can do to get rid of those issues? Then you have come to the right place! This post talks about a wonder treatment – hydrogen peroxide – that can help treat your facial skin and bring back the glow it always had!
Would you like to know more? Keep reading!
Make hydrogen peroxide a part of your daily cleansing routine and it could clear up acne and the scars that come with it. Follow these simple steps to use this treatment:
Make sure your face is clean. Gently wash your face with a mild, all-natural facial cleanser to remove makeup, dirt and oil from your skin.
Gently pat your face dry with a soft towel. Wait for 5 minutes or so to make sure that your face is completely dry. Applying any product on damp skin that has acne will cause it to sting. Dry skin will also be able to absorb the hydrogen peroxide better.
[ Read: Ways To Use Baking Soda For Treating Acne ]
Take a sterilized cotton ball and soak it with the peroxide. Gently rub it on your skin, concentrating on areas that are affected by acne. Applying it all over your face can ensure that future breakouts do not occur.
Wait for about 5 minutes to allow the peroxide to do its job. You will know that it is time for the next step when the bubbling stops.
Wash your face again with water. You do not need to use a cleanser this time. Leaving the peroxide on your skin will do more damage than good, so make sure that you always wash it off.
Pat your skin dry and apply an oil-free moisturizer. Hydrogen peroxide has a drying effect on the skin, so always make sure that you use a moisturizer to prevent your skin from drying.
By using hydrogen peroxide every day, you can effectively treat acne and clear scars and other blemishes on your skin.
[ Read: Steps To Use Banana Peel To Treat Acne ]
[ Read: How To Use Multani Mitti To Cure Acne? ]
Hydrogen peroxide is a great option if you have tried other treatments unsuccessfully. It can give you skin that is clear and free of irritation, redness, scars and other blemishes. When you use it carefully, it can work wonders, giving you the skin that you have always wished for.
Have you ever used hydrogen peroxide for acne scars? How has it helped you? Do tell us by commenting in the space below.
Copyright © 2016 StyleCraze